The White House

Sec. 2.  Steering Group.  There is established a Steering Group on Africa Trade and Investment Capacity Building (Steering Group), to be chaired by the Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics or her designee from the National Security Council staff.  The Steering Group shall meet regularly.
 
Sec. 3.  Membership.  The Steering Group shall include designated representatives from:
 
(a) the Department of State;
 
(b) the Department of the Treasury;
 
(c) the Department of Agriculture;
 
(d) the Department of Commerce;
 
(e) the Department of Transportation;
 
(f) the Department of Energy;
 
(g) the Department of Homeland Security;
 
(h) the Overseas Private Investment Corporation;
 
(i) the Millennium Challenge Corporation;
 
(j) the United States Agency for International Development;
 
(k) the United States Trade and Development Agency; 

(l) the Export-Import Bank of the United States;
 
(m) the Office of the United States Trade Representative; 

(n) the Office of Management and Budget;
 
(o) the African Development Foundation;
  
(p) the Small Business Administration; 
 
(q) the Council of Economic Advisers; and
 
(r) such agencies and offices as the Chair may, from time to time, designate.
 
Sec. 4.  Functions.  Consistent with the authorities and responsibilities of its member agencies and offices, the
Steering Group shall perform the following functions:
 
(a) Not later than 180 days after the date of this memorandum, the Steering Group shall report to the President, through the National Security Advisor, recommendations on a comprehensive approach to expanding Sub-Saharan Africa&#39;s capacity for trade and investment, consistent with U.S. trade and investment policy, development policy, and international agreements.  The recommendations shall include:
 
(i) clearly defined goals and benchmarks for increasing trade and investment in Sub-Saharan Africa, and appropriate and transparent criteria for identifying priority countries, regions, and sectors that have the greatest potential to contribute toward meeting these goals and benchmarks;
 
(ii) an indication of how the recommendations complement other major U.S. Government initiatives and partnerships focused on related issues;
 
(iii) an outline of how to utilize programs across agencies to achieve these goals;
 
(iv) an assessment of how the recommendations complement the activities of other major development partners, including Sub-Saharan African countries;
 
(v) an explanation of how the recommendations fit within existing budget constraints and resource requests, with identification of any significant funding gaps; and
 
(vi) clearly articulated roles and responsibilities of relevant agencies.
 
(b) In undertaking these efforts, the Steering Group shall:

(i) consider a broad range of potential trade and investment capacity building, including:  activities that support AGOA utilization; trade-related efforts to enhance regional integration; programs to develop supply chains; support for development of hard and soft infrastructure; and activities to foster a nondiscriminatory environment that enables trade and investment.  Such activities include regulatory reform and transparency, trade facilitation and better border operations (including implementation of the World Trade Organization Trade Facilitation Agreement), and implementation of World Trade Organization commitments (including those that relate to science-based sanitary and phytosanitary measures and other technical standards);
 
(ii) take into account the range of supply-side constraints to trade in Sub-Saharan Africa, growing private sector interest in trade with and investment in Sub-Saharan Africa, U.S. trade policies and interests (including in addressing barriers to
U.S. trade and investment), international obligations, and the best means to promote regional integration and support value-added production;
 
(iii) consult stakeholders, including Sub-Saharan African partner governments, regional economic communities, partner donor countries, the private sector, development banks, non-governmental organizations, and others as appropriate; 
 
(iv) coordinate its efforts with the interagency Trade Policy Committee, which was authorized by section 242 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, and established by Executive Order 11846 of March 27, 1975, and the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee, which was authorized by statute in 1992 (15 U.S.C. 4727) and established by Executive
Order 12870 of September 30, 1993; and

(v)    coordinate its efforts with other U.S. Government initiatives focused on related issues, including Power Africa, Feed the Future, the Doing Business in Africa Campaign, Partnership for Growth, and the Young African Leaders Initiative, to ensure that U.S. assistance supports consistent policies across initiatives. 
 
Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law, and subject to the availability of appropriations.
 
(b) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
 
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or
 
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
 
(c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

BARACK OBAMA