The White House

ESTABLISHING THE PRESIDENT&#39;S MANAGEMENT ADVISORY BOARD

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Establishment.

Sec. 2. Mission.

(b) The functions of the PMAB shall be advisory only.

Sec. 3. Membership.

(b) The DDM shall serve as Chair of the PMAB. The Chair shall convene and preside at meetings of the PMAB, determine its agenda, and direct its work.

(c) Members appointed by the President shall serve for a term of 2 years and shall be eligible for reappointment. Members may continue to serve after the expiration of their terms until the appointment of a successor.

Sec. 4. Administration.

(b) All executive departments, agencies, and offices shall provide information and assistance to the PMAB as the Chair may request for purposes of carrying out the PMAB&#39;s functions, to the extent permitted by law.

(c) The PMAB shall have a staff headed by an Executive Director, who shall be a full-time or permanent part-time Federal employee appointed by the Chair. The Executive Director shall serve as the Designated Federal Officer in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (FACA).

(d) Members of the PMAB shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707), consistent with the availability of funds.

Sec. 5. Termination.

Sec. 6. General Provisions.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

BARACK OBAMA

THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 19, 2010