The White House

SUBJECT: Maximizing the Effectiveness of Federal Programs and Functions Supporting Trade and Investment

Winning the future and creating an economy that&#39;s built to last will require the Federal Government to wisely allocate scarce resources to maximize efficiency and effectiveness so that it can best support American competitiveness, innovation, and job growth. Creating good, high-paying jobs in the United States and ensuring sustainable economic growth are the top priorities of my Administration. To accomplish these goals, we must ensure that U.S. businesses increase their exports of goods, services, and agricultural products, and that foreign companies recognize the United States as an attractive place to invest and to open businesses. While this growth will be fueled by the private sector, the Federal Government must do its part to facilitate trade and investment.

Executive Order 13534 of March 11, 2010, established the Export Promotion Cabinet to coordinate the development and implementation of the National Export Initiative (NEI) to improve conditions that directly affect the private sector&#39;s ability to export and to help meet my Administration&#39;s goal of doubling exports over 5 years. Pursuant to the terms of the Executive Order, the Export Promotion Cabinet conducts its work in coordination with the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee (TPCC). The TPCC, chaired by the Secretary of Commerce, was authorized by statute in 1992 (15 U.S.C. 4727) and established by Executive Order 12870 of September 30, 1993. The NEI has used Government resources and policies to increase exports at a pace consistent with the goal of doubling exports by the end of 2014. The NEI has accomplished this by opening up foreign markets for U.S. exports, enhancing enforcement of our trade laws, providing needed export financing, advocating on behalf of U.S. firms, and otherwise facilitating U.S. exports. But we must do more.

On January 13, 2012, I announced that I would submit a legislative proposal seeking the authority to reorganize the Federal Government in order to reduce costs and consolidate agencies (Consolidation Authority), and outlined the first use I would make of such authority: to streamline functions currently dispersed across numerous agencies into a single new department to promote competitiveness, exports, and American business. The new department would integrate and streamline trade negotiation, financing, promotion, and enforcement

functions currently housed at half a dozen executive departments and agencies, and would include an office dedicated to expanding foreign investment and assisting businesses that are considering investing in the United States. In addition to the trade and investment functions, the new department would include integrated small business, technology, innovation, and statistics programs and services from a number of departments and agencies, thereby creating a one-stop shop for businesses that want to grow and export. We cannot afford to wait until the Congress acts, however, and must do all we can administratively to make the most efficient and effective use of the Federal Government&#39;s trade, foreign investment, export, and business programs and functions.

Accordingly, to further enhance and coordinate Federal efforts to facilitate the creation of jobs in the United States and ensure sustainable economic growth through trade and foreign investment, and to ensure the effective and efficient use of Federal resources in support of these goals, I hereby direct the following:

(1) Program Coordination

(2) Improving Customer Service for Exporters

(3) Trade Budget

(a) evaluate the allocation of Federal Government resources to assist with trade financing, negotiation, enforcement, and promotion, as well as the encouragement of foreign investment in the United States, and identify potential savings from streamlining overlapping or duplicative programs, as well as areas in need of additional resources;

(b) make recommendations to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for more effective resource allocation to these functions, consistent with my Administration&#39;s strategic trade

and investment goals and priorities, including recommendations to streamline overlapping and duplicative programs and reallocate those resources; and

(c) present to the Director of OMB for consideration in the annual process for developing the President&#39;s Budget, a proposed unified Federal trade budget, consistent with my Administration&#39;s strategic trade and investment goals and priorities.

(4) Coordination of Offices and Staff

(5) Enhancing Business Competitiveness

(6) General Provisions

(b) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) The Director of OMB is hereby authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

BARACK OBAMA