The White House
    Office of the Press Secretary
  
  
    For Immediate Release
    September 24, 2010
  
      
    
  

  
      
  
  Presidential Proclamation--National Hunting and Fishing Day

  
  

  
      
  
  
  
        
              
As Americans, the bond we have with our land is traceable to our earliest ancestors and etched into the character of our Nation. From the rocky shoals of New England to the rugged mountains of the West, the natural beauty and great diversity of our open spaces draw millions to the outdoors every year for sport, play, and relaxation. On National Hunting and Fishing Day, we recognize the Americans who engage in these timeless pursuits, and we reaffirm our commitment to conserving our native lands, waters, and wildlife for generations to come.

 

Like President Theodore Roosevelt -- an enthusiastic hunter and a great conservationist -- hunters and anglers value stewardship, often leading efforts to ensure the protection of our Nation&#39;s wildlife, habitats, and waterways. President Roosevelt understood that conservation was essential to preserving our hunting and fishing heritage, and during his Presidency established the first units of the National Wildlife Refuge System to sustain the outdoor traditions many Americans enjoy today. We recognize, as President Roosevelt did over a century ago, that we must champion the conservation of our lands, and those who know them well -- the individuals who hunt and fish -- must endeavor to be their consummate guardians.

 

Conservation takes on even greater importance today as our lands, waters, and wildlife face threats from global climate change, loss of habitats, and environmental disasters. The abundance of our wilderness is not limitless and needs protection and restoration. To ensure America&#39;s wild spaces remain healthy and accessible for all to enjoy, outdoorsmen and women can continue to participate in innovative programs such as the Federal Duck Stamp Program to protect and restore our natural legacy. This includes rebuilding and safeguarding our fragile Gulf ecosystem, where the unique and beautiful bounty of waterfowl, fish, and other game confront exceptional hardships.