The White House

Michele A. Flournoy, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Eric S. Edelman, resigned.

Gary Gensler, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring April 13, 2012, vice Rueben Jeffery III, resigned.

Gary Gensler, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, vice Reuben Jeffery III, resigned.

Austan Dean Goolsbee, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Katherine Baicker, resigned.

Robert F. Hale, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), vice Tina Westby Jonas, resigned.

John P. Holdren, of Massachusetts, to be Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice John H. Marburger, III.

Jeh Charles Johnson, of New York, to be General Counsel of the Department of Defense, vice William J. Haynes II, resigned.

Jacob J. Lew, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources.  (New Position).

Jane Lubchenco, of Oregon, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Conrad Lautenbacher, Jr., resigned.

William J. Lynn, III, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Defense, vice Gordon England.

Robert L. Nabors, II, of New Jersey, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Stephen S. McMillin, resigned.

Cecilia Elena Rouse, of California, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Donald B. Marron, resigned.

Mary L. Schapiro, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2014, vice Christopher Cox, resigned.

James Braidy Steinberg, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary of State, vice John D. Negroponte.

Nancy Helen Sutley, of California, to be a Member of the Council on Environmental Quality, vice James Laurence Connaughton.

Daniel K. Tarullo, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of fourteen years from February 1, 2008, vice Randall S. Kroszner,  term expired.

# # #