The White House

- - - - - - -

FURTHER AMENDMENTS TO EXECUTIVE ORDER 11478,
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY IN THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT,
AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11246, EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including 40 U.S.C. 121, and in order to provide for a uniform policy for the Federal Government to prohibit discrimination and take further steps to promote economy and efficiency in Federal Government procurement by prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Amending Executive Order 11478

Sec. 2. Amending Executive Order 11246

(a) The first sentence of numbered paragraph (1) of section 202 is revised by substituting &quot;sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin&quot; for &quot;sex, or national origin&quot;.

(b) The second sentence of numbered paragraph (1) of section 202 is revised by substituting &quot;sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin&quot; for &quot;sex or national origin&quot;.

(c) Numbered paragraph (2) of section 202 is revised by substituting &quot;sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin&quot; for &quot;sex or national origin&quot;.

(d) Paragraph (d) of section 203 is revised by substituting &quot;sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin&quot; for &quot;sex or national origin&quot;.

Sec. 3. Regulations

Sec. 4. General Provisions

(i) the authority granted by law to an agency or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

Sec. 5. Effective Date

BARACK OBAMA

THE WHITE HOUSE,&lt; br /&gt; July 21, 2014.