The White House

- - - - - - - 

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

A PROCLAMATION 

Today, too many Americans face futures limited by substance use, which threatens health, safety, and academic performance. Substance use disorders are linked to crime, motor vehicle crashes, and fatalities. This month, we recognize substance abuse prevention programs across our country, and we do our part to build healthier neighborhoods and brighter futures. 

This year&#39;s theme, &quot;Learn it! Live it!&quot; encourages Americans to come together, learn how substance use affects our communities, and live to set a positive example for our families, friends, and neighbors. My Administration&#39;s National Drug Control Strategy 

Because adult role models play an integral role in preventing youth substance abuse, we must lead by example, adopt positive behaviors, and talk to our kids about living substance-free. This month, we stand with local coalitions and community organizations as they advance their drive to keep young people, families, and neighborhoods free from drug and alcohol abuse. I encourage parents, schools, health officials, law enforcement professionals, faith-based organizations, workplaces, the recovery community, and all Americans to join in this effort. If we take up the mantle of healthy lifestyles together, we can help our children avoid the devastating consequences of substance abuse and give them the chance to explore their limitless potential. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2013 as National Substance Abuse Prevention Month. I call upon all Americans to engage in appropriate programs and activities to promote comprehensive substance abuse prevention efforts within their communities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand thirteen, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-eighth. 

BARACK OBAMA