The White House

Today, nearly 24 million Americans have diabetes, and thousands more are diagnosed each day. During National Diabetes Month, we recommit to educating Americans about the risk factors and warning signs of diabetes, and we honor all those living with or lost to this disease.

Diabetes can lead to severe health problems and complications such as heart disease, stroke, vision loss, kidney disease, nerve damage, and amputation. Type 1 diabetes, which can occur at any age but is most often diagnosed in young people, is managed by a lifetime of regular medication or insulin treatment. Type 2 diabetes is far more common, and the number of people developing or at elevated risk for the disease is growing at an alarming rate, including among our Nation&#39;s children. Risk is highest among individuals over the age of 45, particularly those who are overweight, inactive, or have a family history of the disease, as well as among certain racial and minority groups. While less prevalent, gestational diabetes in expectant mothers may lead to a more complicated or dangerous delivery, and can contribute to their child&#39;s obesity later in life. With more Americans becoming affected by diabetes and its consequences every day, our Nation must work together to better prevent, manage, and treat this disease in all its variations.

Obesity is one of the most significant risk factors for Type 2 diabetes. National Diabetes Month gives Americans an opportunity to redouble their efforts to reduce their chances of developing Type 2 diabetes by engaging in regular physical activity, maintaining a healthy weight, and making nutritious food choices. For people already living with diabetes, these lifestyle changes can help with the management of this disease, and delay or prevent complications.

We must also do more to reverse the climbing rates of childhood obesity so all America&#39;s children can grow into healthy, happy, and active adults. Through her &quot;Let&#39;s Move!&quot; initiative, First Lady Michelle Obama is helping to lead an Administration-wide effort to solve the epidemic of childhood obesity within a generation. &quot;Let&#39;s Move!&quot; promotes nutritious foods and physical activities that lead to life-long healthy habits. I encourage all parents, educators, and concerned Americans to visit www.LetsMove.gov