The White House

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRESIDENT&#39;S COUNCIL ON JOBS AND COMPETITIVENESS

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to continue to strengthen the Nation&#39;s economy and ensure the competitiveness of the United States and to create jobs, opportunity, and prosperity for the American people by ensuring the availability of non partisan advice to the President from participants in and experts on the economy, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.

Sec. 2.

(a)  solicit ideas from across the country about how to bolster the economy and the prosperity of the American people that can inform the decisionmaking of the President, and with respect to matters deemed appropriate by the President, provide information and recommendations to any executive department or agency (agency) with responsibilities related to the economy, growth, innovation, American competitiveness, or job creation;

(b)  report directly to the President on the design, implementation, and evaluation of policies to promote the growth of the American economy, enhance the skills and education of Americans, maintain a stable and sound financial and banking system, create stable jobs for American workers, and improve the long term prosperity and competitiveness of the American people; and

(c)  provide analysis and information with respect to the operation, regulation, and healthy functioning of the economy and other factors that may contribute to the sustainable growth and competitiveness of American industry and the American labor force.  As deemed appropriate by the President, this analysis and information shall be provided to the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the National Economic Council, or any agency with responsibilities related to the economy, growth, innovation, American competitiveness, or job creation.

Sec. 3.  Administration of the PCJC.

(b)  The Department of the Treasury shall provide funding and administrative support for the PCJC to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.

(c)  Members of the PCJC shall serve without compensation but may receive transportation expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government (5 U.S.C. 5701 5707), consistent with the availability of funds.

Sec. 4.  Termination.

Sec. 5.  Revocation of Executive Order 13501.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.

(b)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

BARACK OBAMA

THE WHITE HOUSE,
January 31, 2011.