The White House

 Section 1

(1)   Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Administration;

(2)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs;

(3)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services;

(4)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety;

(5)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment;

(6)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services;

(7)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development;

(8)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics;

(9)   General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture;

(10)  Chief of Staff, Office of the Secretary;

(11)  Director, Kansas City Commodity Office, Farm Service Agency;

(l2)  State Executive Directors of the Farm Service Agency for the States of California, Iowa, and Kansas, in order of seniority fixed by length of unbroken service as State Executive Director of that State;

(13)  Regional Administrators of the Food and Nutrition Service for the Mountain Plains Regional Office (Denver, Colorado), Midwest Regional Office (Chicago, Illinois), and Western Regional Office (San Francisco, California), in order of seniority fixed by length of unbroken service as Regional Administrator of that Regional Office;

(14)  Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Agriculture;

(15)  Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights; and

(16)  Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Congressional Relations.

 (b)  If any two or more individuals designated in paragraphs (12) and (13) of subsection (a) were sworn in to, or commenced service in, their respective offices on the same day, precedence shall be determined by the alphabetical order of the State in which the individual serves.

 Sec. 2

(b)  No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1 shall act as Secretary unless that individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998.

(c)  Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary.

 Sec. 3

Sec. 4.  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

BARACK OBAMA

THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 13, 2010.