The White House

Sec. 3.  Membership.  In addition to the Co-Chairs, the Task Force shall include designated senior-level representatives from:
 
(a) the Department of Defense;
 
(b) the Department of Justice;
 
(c) the Department of the Interior;
 
(d) the Department of Agriculture;
 
(e) the Department of Commerce;
 
(f) the Department of Health and Human Services;
 
(g) the Department of Homeland Security;
 
(h) the Office of Management and Budget;
 
(i) the Council on Environmental Quality;
 
(j) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
  
(k) the Office of the United States Trade Representative; 

(l) the United States Agency for International Development; and
 
(m) such agencies and offices as the Co-Chairs may, from   time to time, designate.
 
Sec. 4.  Functions.  Consistent with the authorities and responsibilities of member agencies, the Task Force shall perform the following functions:
 
(a) Not later than 180 days after the date of this memorandum, the Task Force shall report to the President through the National Ocean Council, with recommendations for the implementation of a comprehensive framework of integrated programs to combat IUU fishing and seafood fraud that emphasizes areas of greatest need.  The Task Force should consider a broad range of strategies, including implementation of existing programs, and, if appropriate, development of new, voluntary or other, programs for seafood tracking and traceability.  In providing these recommendations, the Task Force shall identify: 
(i) existing regulatory authorities and make recommendations regarding further authorities that may be warranted;
 
(ii) enforcement best practices and challenges; 
(iii) benefits provided by such a framework, as well as potential impacts on the U.S. fishing industry;
 
(iv) opportunities to address these issues at the international level through the regional fisheries management organizations as well as bilateral efforts, such as technical assistance and capacity building; 
(v) priority actions that will be taken by agencies,
including strengthening coordination between Federal, State, local, and foreign agencies; and
 
(vi) industry approaches that contribute to efforts to combat IUU fishing and seafood fraud, including with respect to seafood traceability and ways to minimize any costs and reporting burdens on small businesses.
 
(b) Upon receiving guidance from the President on the recommendations developed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the Task Force shall begin its implementation of those recommendations and, within 1 year, report to the President, through the National Ocean Council, on its progress.
 
(c) The Task Force shall also consider the need for other strategies for addressing IUU fishing and seafood fraud and may provide recommendations on the development and enhancement of those strategies.
 
(d) In undertaking these efforts, the Task Force shall coordinate its efforts with other Presidential initiatives focused on related issues, including the work of the
Presidential Task Force on Wildlife Trafficking established 
  
in Executive Order 13648 of July 1, 2013 (Combating Wildlife Trafficking), and activities being conducted pursuant to Executive Order 13659 of February 19, 2014 (Streamlining the
Export/Import Process for America&#39;s Businesses).
 
(e) The Task Force shall, as applicable, consult with governments at State, local, tribal, and regional levels to achieve the goals and objectives of this memorandum, as well as the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, and academia.
 
Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable domestic and international law, and subject to the availability of appropriations.
 
(b) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
 
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or
 
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. 
(c) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to require the disclosure of confidential business information or trade secrets, classified information, law enforcement sensitive information, or other information that must be protected in the interest of national security or public safety.
 
(d) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

BARACK OBAMA