The White House

IMPROVING AMERICAN INDIAN AND ALASKA NATIVE EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES AND STRENGTHENING TRIBAL COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1.  Policy

It is the policy of my Administration to support activities that will strengthen the Nation by expanding educational opportunities and improving educational outcomes for all AI/AN students in order to fulfill our commitment to furthering tribal self-determination and to help ensure that AI/AN students have an opportunity to learn their Native languages and histories and receive complete and competitive educations that prepare them for college, careers, and productive and satisfying lives.

My Administration is also committed to improving educational opportunities for students attending TCUs.  TCUs maintain, preserve, and restore Native languages and cultural traditions; offer a high quality college education; provide career and technical education, job training, and other career building programs; and often serve as anchors in some of the country&#39;s poorest and most remote areas.

Sec. 2.  Definitions

(b)  &quot;Indian tribe&quot; means an Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 479a.

(c)  &quot;American Indian and Alaska Native&quot; means a member of an Indian tribe, as membership is defined by the tribe.

(d)  &quot;Public school&quot; means a Head Start center or a pre kindergarten, elementary, or secondary school that is predominantly funded by public means through the Federal Government, a State, a local educational agency, or an Indian tribal government, including a school operated directly by or through contract or grant with the BIE, an Indian tribe, or a State, county, or local government.

(e)  &quot;Tribal Colleges and Universities&quot; are those institutions that are chartered by their respective Indian tribes through the sovereign authority of the tribes or by the Federal Government, and defined in section 316 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c).

Sec. 3.  White House Initiative on American Indian and Alaska Native Education.

(a)  Establishment.

The Executive Director shall work closely with the BIE Director and shall provide periodic reports to the Secretaries of Education and the Interior regarding progress achieved under the Initiative.  The Executive Director shall coordinate frequent consultations with tribal officials and shall provide staff support for the National Advisory Council on Indian Education (NACIE), authorized by section 7141 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) (20 U.S.C. 7471).

(b)  Mission and Functions. 

(i)    working closely with the Executive Office of the President to help ensure AI/AN participation in the development and implementation of key Administration priorities;

(ii)   strengthening the relationship between the Department of Education, which has substantial expertise and resources to help improve Indian education, and the Department of the Interior and its BIE, which directly operates or provides grants to tribes to operate an extensive primary, secondary, and college level school system for AI/AN children and young adults;

(iii)  coordinating, in consultation with the Department of Education&#39;s Director of Indian Education, programs administered by the Department of Education and other executive branch agencies regarding AI/AN education;

(iv)   serving as a liaison with other executive branch agencies on AI/AN issues and advising those agencies on how they might help to promote AI/AN educational opportunities;

(v)    reporting on the development, implementation, and coordination of education policy and programs that affect AI/AN students;

(vi)   furthering tribal sovereignty by supporting efforts, consistent with applicable law, to build the capacity of tribal educational agencies and TCUs to provide high quality education services to AI/AN children;

(vii)   developing in partnership with tribal educational agencies a more routine and streamlined process for entering into agreements for educational studies conducted on tribal lands;

(viii)  developing sufficient data resources to inform progress on Federal performance indicators, in close collaboration with the Department of Education&#39;s National Center for Educational Statistics;

(ix)    encouraging and coordinating Federal partnerships with public, private, philanthropic, and nonprofit entities to help increase the readiness of AI/AN students for school, college, and careers, and to help increase the number and percentage of AI/AN students completing college; and

(x)     developing a national network of individuals, organizations, and communities to share best practices in AI/AN education and encouraging them to implement these practices.

(2)  In order to help expand educational opportunities and improve education outcomes for AI/AN students, the Initiative shall promote, encourage, and undertake efforts, consistent with applicable law, to meet the following objectives:

(i)    increasing the number and percentage of AI/AN children who enter kindergarten ready for success through improved access to high quality early learning programs and services, including Native language immersion programs, that encourage the learning and development of AI/AN children from birth through age five;

(ii)   supporting the expanded implementation of education reform strategies that have shown evidence of success in enabling AI/AN students to acquire a rigorous and well-rounded education and increasing their access to the support services that prepare them for college, careers, and civic involvement;

(iii)  increasing the number and percentage of AI/AN students who have access to excellent teachers and school leaders, including effective science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), language, and special education teachers, in part by supporting efforts to improve the recruitment, development, and retention of effective AI/AN teachers and other effective teachers and school leaders, particularly through TCUs;

(iv)   reducing the AI/AN student dropout rate and helping a greater number and percentage of those students who stay in high school to be ready for college and careers by the time of their graduation and college completion, in part by promoting a positive school climate and supporting successful and innovative dropout prevention and recovery strategies that better engage AI/AN youths in their learning and help them catch up academically;

(v)    providing pathways that enable those who have dropped out to reenter educational or training programs and acquire degrees, certificates, or industry recognized credentials and obtain quality jobs, and expanding access to high quality education programs leading to career advancement, especially in the STEM fields, by supporting adult, career, and technical education;

(vi)   increasing college access and completion for AI/AN students through strategies to strengthen the capacity of postsecondary institutions, particularly TCUs; and

(vii)  helping to ensure that the unique cultural, educational, and language needs of AI/AN students are met.

(3)  To facilitate a new partnership between the Department of Education and the Department of the Interior, to improve AI/AN education, the Executive Director shall work with the BIE Director and develop a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the two Departments that will take advantage of both Departments&#39; expertise, resources, and facilities.  The MOU shall be completed within 120 days of the date of this order.  Among other things, the MOU shall address how the Departments will collaborate in carrying out the policy set out in section 1 of this order.

(c)  Funding and Administrative Support

(d)  Interagency Working Group

(e)  Federal Agency Plans

(i)    annual performance indicators and appropriate measurable objectives with which the agency will measure its success in meeting the goals of this order;

(ii)   information on how the agency intends to increase the capacity of educational agencies and institutions, including our Nation&#39;s public schools and TCUs, to deliver high-quality education and related social services to all AI/AN students; and

(iii)  agency efforts to enhance the ability of these educational agencies and institutions serving AI/AN students to compete effectively for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other Federal resources with which to serve the education needs of AI/AN students, and to encourage eligible schools and colleges serving those students to apply for Federal grants and participate in Federal education programs, as appropriate.  Agency plans may also emphasize access to high quality educational opportunities for AI/AN students, consistent with requirements of the ESEA, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, and other applicable Federal education statutes; the preservation and revitalization of tribal languages and cultural traditions; and innovative approaches to more seamlessly align early learning, elementary, and secondary education programs with the work of TCUs.

(2)  Submission

(3)  Annual Performance Reports

(f)  Private Sector

(1)  Providing funds to support the preservation and revitalization of Native languages and cultures;

(2)  Providing funds to support increased institutional endowments;

(3)  Helping these schools develop expertise in financial and facilities management, information systems, and curricula; and

(4)  Providing resources for the hiring and training of effective teachers and administrators.

Sec. 4.  Study

Sec. 5.  General Provisions

(b)  Insofar as the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the Initiative, any functions of the President under that Act, except for those of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Administrator of General Services.

(c)  This order revokes Executive Order 13270 of July 3, 2002, Executive Order 13336 of April 30, 2004, and section 1(n) of Executive Order 13585 of September 30, 2011.

(d)  The heads of agencies shall assist and provide such information to the Initiative as may be necessary to carry out its functions, consistent with applicable law.

(e)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(1)  authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(2)  functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(f)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

BARACK OBAMA

THE WHITE HOUSE
December 2, 2011.