The White House

     Together, we can stop this epidemic in its tracks.  Over the last year and a half, the First Lady&#39;s Let&#39;s Move!

     Everyone has a role to play in preventing and reversing the tide of childhood obesity.  This year, we announced groundbreaking partnerships with grocery stores and other retailers to increase access to healthy food in underserved areas.  These stores have pledged to increase their fruit and vegetable offerings and to open new locations in communities where nutritious food is limited or unavailable.  Childhood obesity cuts across all cultural and demographic lines, so Let&#39;s Move!

     Schools also have an important role in ensuring our children live full and active lives.  Last December, I signed the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act into law, enacting comprehensive change that will allow more children to eat healthier school lunches.  One of the cornerstones of Let&#39;s Move!

     We are coordinating across the Federal Government to make our goal a reality.  This year, the Federal Government released updated Dietary Guidelines for Americans, providing a sciencebased roadmap for individuals to make healthy choices, and emphasizing the importance of good nutrition and an active lifestyle.  We adapted the food pyramid to a new design  MyPlate  to encourage balanced meals.  And our Healthy People 2020 initiative incorporates childhood obesity prevention in its goals for increasing the health of all Americans.

     Across our country, parents are working hard every day to make sure their kids are healthy, and my Administration is committed to supporting families in their efforts.  During National Childhood Obesity Awareness Month, we recognize the outstanding work our businesses, communities, and families are doing to help us meet our responsibilities to our children.  I urge all Americans to help us meet our goal of solving the problem of childhood obesity within a generation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2011 as National Childhood Obesity Awareness Month.  I encourage all Americans to take action by learning about and engaging in activities that promote healthy eating and greater physical activity by all our Nation&#39;s children.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand eleven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-sixth.

BARACK OBAMA