The White House

              THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

              THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND  BUDGET

              THE NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR

              THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION

SUBJECT: Establishing the Director of White House Information Technology and the Executive Committee for Presidential Information Technology

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to improve the information resources and information systems provided to the President, Vice President, and Executive Office of the President (EOP), I hereby direct the following:

Section

This memorandum is intended to maintain the President&#39;s exclusive control of the information resources and information systems provided to the President, Vice President, and EOP.  High-quality, efficient, interoperable, and safe information systems and information resources are required in order for the President to discharge the duties of his office with the support of those who advise and assist him, and with the additional assistance of all EOP components.  The responsibilities that this memorandum vests in the Director of White House Information Technology, as described below, have been performed historically within the EOP, and it is the intent of this memorandum to continue this practice.

The Director of White House Information Technology, on behalf of the President, shall have the primary authority to establish and coordinate the necessary policies and procedures for operating and maintaining the information resources and information systems provided to the President, Vice President, and EOP.  Nothing in this memorandum may be construed to delegate the ownership, or any rights associated with ownership, of any information resources or information systems, nor of any record, to any entity outside of the EOP.

 Sec

There is hereby established the Director of White House Information Technology (Director).  The Director shall be the senior officer responsible for the information resources and information systems provided to the President, Vice President, and EOP by the Presidential Information Technology Community(Community).  The Director shall:

Sec

The Committee shall advise and make policy recommendations to the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and the Director with respect to operational and procurement decisions necessary to achieve secure, seamless, reliable, and integrated information resources and information systems for the President, Vice President, and EOP.  The Director shall update the Committee on both strategy and execution, as requested, including collaboration efforts with the Federal Chief Information Officer, with other government agencies, and by participating in the Chief Information Officers Council. 

    Sec

&quot;Information resources,&quot; &quot;information systems,&quot; and &quot;information technology&quot; have the meanings assigned by section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.