The White House

SUBJECT:      Enhancing Workplace Flexibilities and Work-Life Programs

To attract, empower, and retain a talented and productive workforce in the 21st century, the Federal Government must continue to make progress in enabling employees to balance their responsibilities at work and at home.  We should build on our record of leadership through better education and training, expanded availability of workplace flexibilities and work-life programs, as appropriate, and improved tracking of outcomes and accountability.  In doing so, we can help ensure that the Federal workforce is engaged and empowered to deliver exceptional and efficient service to the American public while meeting family and other needs at home.

Therefore, it is the policy of the Federal Government to promote a culture in which managers and employees understand the workplace flexibilities and work-life programs available to them and how these measures can improve agency productivity and employee engagement.  The Federal Government must also identify and eliminate any arbitrary or unnecessary barriers or limitations to the use of these flexibilities and develop new strategies consistent with statute and agency mission to foster a more balanced workplace.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to support executive departments and agencies (agencies) in their efforts to better utilize existing and develop new workplace flexibilities and work-life programs, I hereby direct as follows:

Section 1.  Right to Request Work Schedule Flexibilities.

(a)  Agencies shall make Federal employees aware, on a periodic basis, that they have the right to request work schedule flexibilities available to them under law, pursuant to an applicable collective bargaining agreement, or under agency policy, without fear of retaliation or adverse employment action as a consequence of making such a request.

(b)  To facilitate conversations about work schedule flexibilities, each agency shall review, and if necessary amend or establish, procedures within 120 days of the date of this memorandum.  Subject to collective bargaining agreements, agency procedures must provide:

employees an ability to request work schedule flexibilities, including telework, part-time employment, or job sharing; 

(d)  Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the discretion granted to an employee&#39;s supervisor in making a decision on the request for work schedule flexibilities, in accordance with the agency&#39;s mission-related requirements.

 Sec. 2.  Expanding Access to Workplace Flexibilities.

Agency heads shall ensure that the following workplace flexibilities are available to the maximum extent practicable, in accordance with the laws and regulations governing these programs and consistent with mission needs:

(a)  part-time employment and job sharing, including for temporary periods of time where appropriate; 

(b)  alternative work schedules, including assurance that core hours are limited only to those hours that are necessary; 

(c)  break times for nursing mothers and a private space to express milk;  

(d)  telework; 

(e)  annual leave and sick leave, including the advancement of leave for employee and family care situations; 

(f)   sick leave for family care and bereavement;  

(g)  sick leave to care for a family member with a serious health condition; 

(h)  sick leave for adoption; 

(i)   leave pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), including allowing employees to take their FMLA leave intermittently as allowed under the Act, including for childbirth, adoption, and foster care;

(j)  leave transfer programs, including leave banks; 

(k)  bone marrow and organ donor leave; and

(l)  leave policies related to domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking situations.

 

Sec. 4.  Helping Agencies Encourage the Use of Workplace Flexibilities and Work-Life Programs. The Director of OPM

(Director) shall work with agencies to: