The White House

(B)  key design concepts of weapons of mass destruction.

(2)  In extraordinary cases, agency heads may, within 5 years of the onset of automatic declassification, propose to exempt additional specific information from declassification at 50 years.

(3)  Records exempted from automatic declassification under this paragraph shall be automatically declassified on December 31 of a year that is no more than 75 years from the date of origin unless an agency head, within 5 years of that date, proposes to exempt specific information from declassification at 75 years and the proposal is formally approved by the Panel.

(i)  Specific records exempted from automatic declassification prior to the establishment of the Center described in section 3.7 of this order shall be subject to the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section in a scheduled and prioritized manner determined by the Center.

(j)  At least 1 year before information is subject to automatic declassification under this section, an agency head or senior agency official shall notify the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office, serving as Executive Secretary of the Panel, of any specific information that the agency proposes to exempt from automatic declassification under paragraphs (b) and (h) of this section.

(1)  The notification shall include:

(A)  a detailed description of the information, either by reference to information in specific records or in the form of a declassification guide;

(B)  an explanation of why the information should be exempt from automatic declassification and must remain classified for a longer period of time; and

(C)  a specific date or a specific and independently verifiable event for automatic declassification of specific records that contain the information proposed for exemption.

(2)  The Panel may direct the agency not to exempt the information or to declassify it at an earlier date than recommended.  An agency head may appeal such a decision to the President through the National Security Advisor.  The information will remain classified while such an appeal is pending.

(k)  For information in a file series of records determined not to have permanent historical value, the duration of classification beyond 25 years shall be the same as the disposition (destruction) date of those records in each Agency Records Control Schedule or General Records Schedule, although the duration of classification shall be extended if the record has been retained for business reasons beyond the scheduled disposition date.

Sec. 3.4.  Systematic Declassification Review.  (a)  Each agency that has originated classified information under this order or its predecessors shall establish and conduct a program for systematic declassification review for records of permanent historical value exempted from automatic declassification under section 3.3 of this order.  Agencies shall prioritize their review of such records in accordance with priorities established by the Center.

(b)  The Archivist shall conduct a systematic declassification review program for classified records:  (1) accessioned into the National Archives; (2) transferred to the Archivist pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2203; and (3) for which the National Archives serves as the custodian for an agency or organization that has gone out of existence.

Sec. 3.5.  Mandatory Declassification Review.