The White House

(a) in section 1, by striking subsection (e), and inserting in lieu thereof the following: &quot;(e) &#39;Specified agency heads&#39; means:

(i) the Attorney General;

(ii) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(iii) the Secretary of Commerce;

(iv) the Secretary of Labor;

(v) the Secretary of Health and Human Services;

(vi) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;

(vii) the Secretary of Education;

(viii) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;

(ix) the Secretary of Homeland Security;

(x) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;

(xi) the Administrator of the Small Business Administration;

(xii) the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development; and

(xiii) the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service.&quot;

(b) by striking section 2, and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

&quot;Sec. 2.  Fundamental Principles

(i) Referral to an Alternative Provider. If a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary of a social service program supported by Federal financial assistance objects to the religious character of an organization that provides services under the program, that organization shall, within a reasonable time after the date of the objection, refer the beneficiary to an alternative provider.

(ii) Agency Responsibilities. Each agency responsible for administering a social service program or supporting a social service program with Federal financial assistance shall establish policies and procedures designed to ensure that (1) appropriate and timely referrals are made to an alternative provider; (2) all referrals are made in a manner consistent with all applicable privacy laws and regulations; (3) the organization subject to subsection (h)(i) notifies the agency of any referral; (4) such organization has established a process for determining whether the beneficiary has contacted the alternative provider; and (5) each beneficiary of a social service program receives written notice of the protections set forth in this subsection prior to enrolling in or receiving services from such program.

(i)  To promote transparency and accountability, agencies that provide Federal financial assistance for social service programs shall post online, in an easily accessible manner, regulations, guidance documents, and policies that reflect or elaborate upon the fundamental principles described in this section.  Agencies shall also post online a list of entities that receive Federal financial assistance for provision of social service programs, consistent with law and pursuant to guidance set forth in paragraph (c) of section 3 of this order.

(j)  Decisions about awards of Federal financial assistance must be free from political interference or even the appearance of such interference and must be made on the basis of merit, not on the basis of the religious affiliation of a recipient organization or lack thereof.&quot;;

(c)  by striking section 3, and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

&quot;Sec. 3.  Ensuring Uniform Implementation Across the Federal Government.

(i)    the Department of State;
(ii)    the Department of Justice;
(iii)    the Department of the Interior;
(iv)    the Department of Agriculture;
(v)    the Department of Commerce;
(vi)    the Department of Labor;
(vii)    the Department of Health and Human Services;
(viii)    the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
(ix)    the Department of Education;
(x)    the Department of Veterans Affairs;
(xi)    the Department of Homeland Security;
(xii)    the Environmental Protection Agency;
(xiii)    the Small Business Administration;
(xiv)    the United States Agency for International Development;
(xv)    the Corporation for National and Community Service; and
(xvi)    other agencies and offices as the President, from time to time, may designate.

(e)  Administration of the Initiative

(d)  by striking in the title, preamble, and section 1(c), &quot;community&quot; and inserting in lieu thereof &quot;other neighborhood&quot;.
Sec. 2.  General Provisions.
(a)  This order amends the requirements contained in Executive Order 13279.  This order supplements, but does not supersede, the requirements contained in Executive Orders 13198 and 13199 of January 29, 2001, and Executive Order 13498 of February 5, 2009.
(b)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii)  functions of the Director of the OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(d)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
 

                               BARACK OBAMA

THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 17, 2010.